---
title:  "This Site"
date:   2021-04-05 14:31:23
categories: [Projects]
tags: jekyll
---

How  *META*...

At some point in every young man's life comes a time when he wants to leave the cesspool that is facebook/linkedin/etc. or at least minimize it's usage. To do so but also balance it out with not becoming a total hermit - I decided to make this site. A pretty loose collection of thoughts, information about myself and a way to keep in touch with people not falling off the radar.

The website uses jekyll (static site generator) with a little JS (ajax) to make it a bit more dynamic.
I didn't want to put too much effort into it, so I went with a prebuilt theme for jekyll and github pages but I ended up putting quite a bit of effort into heavily modifying the theme and writing an HTML resume. But it was fun, so it was worth it.
I also added a comment section with the help of Staticman. It's pretty wild how this works - you host it on Heroku or something and it watches for POST requests directed at it. If it receives one - it will actually edit the html of the page to add the comment and open a github pull request for me to approve. 

It's pretty wild.  

Those can be also approved automatically but judging by the spam I've been getting from some dude named Eric this wouldn't be a great idea. 

Modifications to the uno theme include: 

- Adding a "Projects" page, which in itself is a blog, limited by category from the standard blog. (all posts with category "Projects" will be filtered out)
- Adding a "Resume" page with a static html resume. All blog posts with the category "Resume" will be hidden. (Made best efforts to make static resume responsive)
- Smooth transition between all three pages (using AJAX - as an SPA).
- Replacing FB/twitter with mastodon/matrix
- Visual touches, including dark theme
- A dumb disclaimer alert in the footer. 

Planned:

- [x] Removing Disqus for a more privacy respecting alternative (~~github comments?~~ Staticman ~~? hyvor?~~)
- Making the pages "closable" (going back to the landing page)
- [x] Replacing icon font (as mastodon/matrix are currently using generic icons) (replaced with font awesome)
- Decide if I should filter out Projects and Resume from the RSS feed. Liquid makes this easy but don't mind showing atleast projects there.
- Perhaps having a timeline with github icons (see TZühlke) for the projects instead of posts. Post functionallity should ideally be kept for longer writhings
- Previous/ Next post (had some issues with liquid in this regards).
- Making the theme separate from my personal website, when I'm done with all of those. 

Copy to your heart's content:
[GitHub - TalkinWhip/TalkinWhip.github.io](https://github.com/TalkinWhip/TalkinWhip.github.io)
